Preliminary Proposals (required): Preliminary proposals are required and must
be submitted via the NSF FastLane system, even if full proposals will be
submitted via Grants.gov.

Separately submitted collaborative proposals will not be accepted; partner
institutions must be funded via subawards.

Preliminary Proposal Contents

The preliminary proposal should consist of the following elements:

Cover Sheet. For planning purposes, August 1, 2014 should be shown as the start
date. Be sure to check the block indicating that a preliminary proposal is
being submitted, and identify the program solicitation number in the program
announcement/solicitation block.

Project Summary. (1 page maximum) Required elements include an overview of the
proposed program, and separate entries addressing the intellectual merit and
broader impacts. The summary should be written in the third person, informative
to those working in the same or related field(s), and understandable to a
scientifically or technically literate reader.

Table of Contents. A Table of Contents is automatically generated for the
proposal by the FastLane system. The proposer cannot edit this form.

Project Description (8-pages maximum), including the following:
- A statement of which of the four categories of MSIP is most appropriate 
for this proposal as the first sentence (see section II. Program Description).
- A scientific justification. For Open Access Capabilities, explain the 
uniqueness and lack of general availability of the capability.
- A description of the broader impacts, including student training.
- A description of benefits to the community (observing time, data products, etc.)
- An outline of the project management plan (where appropriate).
Note: Results from Prior NSF Support should not be included. Links to URLs may 
not be used.

References Cited (2-page limit). See NSF GPG instructions.

Biographical Sketches (2 pages each; long collaborator lists may continue on a
3rd page). Biographical Sketches are required for the PI and all co-PIs, and
additional senior personnel at all participating institutions. See GPG for
details.  

Budget and Budget Justification, including budgets for any subawards.

Facilities, Equipment, and Other Resources: In order for NSF, and its
reviewers, to assess the scope of a proposed project, all organizational
resources necessary for, and available to a project, must be described in this
section of the proposal (see GPG Chapter II.C.2.i for further information).
Proposers should describe only those resources that are directly applicable.
Proposers should include an aggregated description of the internal and external
resources (both physical and personnel) that the organization and its
collaborators will provide to the project, should it be funded. Such
information must be provided in this section, in lieu of other parts of the
proposal (e.g., budget justification, project description). The description
should be narrative in nature and must not include any quantifiable financial
information.

Supplementary Documents: (to be entered in the Supplementary Documents section
of FastLane). 1) A list of the major team members, their affiliations, and
their role in the project; 2) A list of Partner Institutions to be funded via
subawards, and the role of each in the project.

No other items or appendices are to be included. Information pertaining to
"Results from Prior NSF Support", "Current and Pending Support", "Data
Management Plan", and "Postdoctoral Mentoring Plan" is not required for
preliminary proposals and should not be included. Preliminary proposals
containing items other than those required above will be returned without
review.

Optional Information to be submitted to NSF via the FastLane Single Copy
Documents Section.

List of suggested reviewers or reviewers not to include (with a brief
explanation or justification for why the reviewer should be excluded);
Proprietary or privileged information (if applicable).
